So before you start with your first task,
I would like to give you a tour of a code you will be working on.
Now the input of the data processing chain is a sequence of 10 images.
The output is a set of nine matched key point pairs.
The code is currently using the Shi-Tomasi Detector and the BRISK descriptor.
Once we have the descriptors for two successive images,
brute-force matching is used to associate key points.
Now let's take a look at the code so you can start right away working on your first task.
Okay. So what you can see here is the project space which we will be using.
The way we will do this is we will walk you through from top to bottom in
the main file, which is MidTermProject_Camera_Student.cpp.
Now at the start of this file are
the includes which our basic STL includes such as iostream,
vector, cmath, and so on.
Then we have the OpenCV includes which include the core functionality,
some visualization staff, image processing,
and also everything related to features and descriptives.
Then we have our own data structures which we will look at shortly.
Also the matching2D.hpp include,
this basically everything associated with
camera-based processing loop such as feature detection,
descriptor, extraction, matching, etc.
Then in the main program.
In the main program the first part is about initializing variables and data structures.
Here's the location of the images on your hard disc currently
it's a relative path which starts from where the executable is.
Usually when you are using the virtual environment which is provided to you by Udacity,
you don't have to change this variable here.
But when you import this project into your own environment and it doesn't work,
this might be a place to look for,
where you need to make some adjustments so that this works correctly for you.
Then comes the camera section which has the image-based path,
the image prefix which is currently one of the KITTI sequences.
Also the file type PNG.
We have a start index and an end index.
If you look into the overview on the left,
we have an image folder here which basically contains all the images you will be using.
Let's take a quick look.
This is an image which you are already familiar with.
It's the highway scenario which we have been using in quite a few examples up until now.
We have a total of 10 images of this type.
Let's go to the last one and observe the vehicle directly in front of you now.
This is the last image. As you can see this is much closer now.
So basically, a sequence of 10 images where
the preceding vehicle slowly approaches the ego vehicle.
That's the data which we will be looking at.
Let's go back to the main file.
Now what you can see here,
in the next part some miscellaneous variables,
the data buffer size and this one is very important for
the first exercise where you will be implementing a ring buffer.
This ring buffer will hold images,
will hold key point matches,
will later hold LiDAR points,
and it's going to be stored in a in a dynamic list in a vector of type dataframe.
Let's look at dataframe now.
DataFrame is contained in
dataStructures.h on the left-hand side let's open this one up here.
As you can see here a DataFrame it's going to
be small for now but we will expand on it later.
For now it contains the camera image,
it contains a list of key points,
it contains descriptors which we compute from the key point,
and also it contains a set of matches which connect this current data frame
to the next DataFrame which comes later in time.
Let's go back to the main file here.
Once we did all this, also we have a visualization flag which you can switch on and off
to have some intermediate views of the results down below.
Then comes the main loop over all the images.
This starts at index zero and goes up until the last index,
it's the imageEndIndex here,
nine in our case.
In the first part what we do here is we load all the images into this buffer.
The first part we assemble the filenames for the current index so that IMG full filename
gives you the absolute path including
the file name and the ending of the image we will be loading.
We'll load this using the imread function down below here,
providing it with a full filename.
Then we are converting it into color format.
Currently we are using only grayscale images for this KITTI folder.
Currently we are only using grayscale images but should you be using color images,
this would be the conversion function to move from BGR format to grayscale.
So then we have the first student assignment which will have
a detailed introduction later on in this documentation here.
For now, it is suffice to say that
the only thing which we are doing here in this part is,
we are pushing the current image into
a data frame buffer and add the data frame buffer to the end of the vector.
So instantiate the DataFrame,
add the image to it and then push this data frame into the dynamic list.
That's everything that's done here.
That's not very optimal as you will see in the first assignment.
So then we have completed
the first part which is loading a single image into the buffer. This is done.
Then we move on to the next part which is about detecting image key points.
Currently in the base implementation of the student version,
this is done using the Shi-Tomasi method.
As you can see here I'm using a string which is called detector type,
to later on select which key point detection method which we will be using.
Currently I have only Shi-Tomasi switched on.
I think it's the second assignment task MP.2.
This task would be to use HARRIS, FAST, BRISK,
ORB and several other detectors to use in addition to the Shi-Tomasi method.
You will choose the respective method by selecting this string here.
So that's the second assignment.
After calling to this function,
we have a set of key points for each image stored in this key point variable here.
I forgot to mention this just now,
this is also a vector which takes an OpenCV datatype called key point.
This holds for each image.
This holds the set of all the key points detected in the image.
Then we move on to the next part which is task MP.3.
Sometimes it makes sense to focus only on a small selection of key points.
For this MidTermProject, we only want to keep
key points which are directly located on the preceding vehicle.
Of course there are key points everywhere on the road surface,
on the vehicles around,
around our own ego vehicle,
on the bridge which is crossing over the highway.
So everywhere are key points,
but what we want to do is we want to only
evaluate the key points which are directly located on the vehicle in front of us.
In order to do so at least roughly,
we want to define a data structure which is called
Rect datatype containing opens in the OpenCV.
This is a setting which for sequence of nine images,
which defines a rectangle which always encloses the directly preceding vehicle.
So this is another task for you.
Filter out all the key points which are located outside of this bounding rectangle,
and only keep the ones within.
This comes later in the detail assignment to task MP.3.
Now once you have filtered the key points on the vehicle in front of us,
sometimes again it makes sense
to limit the number of key points to let's say a number of 50,
if we have so many matches that visualization only gives us a blur of colors,
where we cannot look at individual key points.
So if you have too many key points and you want to look at them more closely,
you can switch on this flag here.
Let's say switch this to 20,
or 30, or any number you like.
Then basically the number of key points which the detector
found is lowered to the number indicated here.
But this is only for debugging purposes, for tutorial purposes.
This should not be switched on in a running version of the code where it's about getting
as many key points as we can on the objects of interest to us.
So switch this on only for scenarios where we want to look closely at certain key points,
when the visualization is too overload it to be of meaning to us.
Once this is complete what we do here is we are simply pushing
the key points we found into the last element contained in the data buffer.
Once this is done, part two is ready detect key points done.
Let's move on to the next part which is about
extracting the key point descriptors for all the key points.
So this is also the next assignment task MP.4.
We have one descriptor already implemented as a BRISK descriptor.
In addition to the brisk descriptor,
you're supposed to implement BRIEF, ORB,
FREAK, AKAZE, and the SIFT descriptor also.
But this is performed within
the function desk key points which we will look at very shortly.
So also again, this should be selectable using
this string called descriptor type here similar to the detector type above.
So once descriptor extraction is finished,
descriptors are added also to the data frame structure,
and the last element in our data buffer respectively.
Then we can move on to the next part which is about matching key points.
This part is only entered into once the data buffer size exceeds a single element,
which makes sense because we want to match images between two features or two.
We want to match key points between two images.
If you only have one, this simply doesn't work,
so we need at least the data buffer size of
two to be able to match key points descriptors.
Now the data structure which contains other matches is also a vector which
contains DMatches which is an OpenCV data type you might want to look into more closely.
But this is the result structure which we will fill with our matching approach.
So currently, we can select three different things here.
We have the matcher type which
lets you choose between Brute Force and FLANN-based matching.
Currently, in the student version only a brute force matching is implemented.
Then, you can select the type of descriptor which you have;
is it a binary descriptors such as brisk or such as orb,
or is it histogram of oriented gradients based descriptors such as sift,
this one as indicated here.
Then you can also choose the type of nearest neighbor approach you want to implement.
Is it the nearest neighbor approach where only the closest match is selected,
or is it the k-Nearest Neighbor approach where you keep the k nearest neighbors?
If k is at the two,
you would get the best two matches for each descriptive pair.
Okay. Once we have selected those strings here,
the actual matching is called.
The function match descriptors is something which we will look at shortly.
It's also in the matching 2D function.
It takes as input a set of keypoints for the previous dataframe,
for the current dataframe,
also their respective descriptors here,
and then all the configuration strings which we just talked about now.
The output is the matches vector which is defined in line 143, this one here.
Once this function is complete,
we have a set of matches between the current dataframe and
the previous dataframe which will then be visualized in the last part.
So this basically is what's in the midterm project for now.
We have the last line here which adds the matches to the last data buffer element here,
and then we only have the visualization down here below.
Let's run the code to see how this looks.
So what you can see here is a pretty colorful image of
the first frame and the second frame of the image sequence.
All those colored lines are matched keypoint pairs
using the Shi-Tomasi detector and the brisk descriptor.
As you can see, there are some lines which span the image diagonally.
These ones are false matches where we have
matched two keypoint pairs which obviously do not belong to each other,
and matches which are in
a horizontal line even though we cannot see it quite clearly here,
indicate that at least the respective match is in
the same row as the feature on the left side here.
So for visualization purposes,
now let's switch on the feature,
and let's limit the number of keypoints to the best 50 matches here.
Let's run it again,
look at the code, look at the output.
As you can see, it's much better visible now.
For example, here again,
we have this branch on the left-hand side.
This is the tree branch here,
and it's matched to the same position in the right image.
Also we have a match on the right tail light and this match,
if you follow the brown line to the right,
this matches also to the right tail lights here.
On the other hand, this one here,
the left tail light,
if you follow the blue line,
this matches to the left tail light over the vehicle on the left.
So this is a false match and this is something we do not want to keep
because this would give us a false estimate of the time to collision obviously.
Okay. So the main function here,
now let's look into the matching
2Dstudent.cpp where all the image processing components are.
By the way, if you press space,
the image sequence progresses through
all the nine images or the 10 images which we have in the sequence.
So inside matching 2D student.cpp.
What we have here are several functions.
The first one is matched descriptors.
This is the one we're currently Brute force matching,
is implemented using this structure here.
It's a Brute force matching method we select from
the openCV using the hamming distance because it's a binary descriptor.
This would be the position where you should implement the FLANN-based matching method.
Here is the nearest neighbor selector which is currently used,
and here would be the k-nearest neighbor
selector which you should implement in one of the tasks.
So this is the matching part.
Then here we have the descriptor extraction part, descriptor keypoints.
Currently, we have the brisk descriptor which is used
here drawing from the OpenCV implementation,
which cause on creating the extractor function taking some parameters here.
After creating this data structure and storing it into the extractor variable here,
we are then calling the compute function on it,
and compute basically gives you the set of
keypoint descriptors which are then stored in this variable here.
Also we are measuring how long it takes
to perform the actual descriptor extraction here in milliseconds.
Then lastly, the last function here is that keypoint Shi-Tomasi.
You have seen this function before,
I will not go into too many details on this.
Suffice it to say we have a set of variables which
basically define the number of keypoints which the function will provide to you.
It also sets the quality level and some other parameters.
We call the function which is called good features to track,
and then we store the results in
a vector and measure also how long it
takes to compute to compute the Shi-Tomasi keypoints.
So now you have an understanding of a coding framework,
and once you have completed the Midterm project,
it will be performing much better and you will be
able to use it in the final project of this course.
But before we get ahead of ourselves,
let's take a look at your first task.